README.md, before:

# ARSnova

ARSnova is a modern approach to Audience Response Systems (ARS).
It is released under the GPLv3 license, and is offered as a Software as a Service free of charge.
Head over to [arsnova.eu](https://arsnova.eu/) to see it in action.

![ARSnova](src/site/resources/showcase.png)

ARSnova consists of two projects: the mobile frontend and the backend.
This repository contains the backend code.
You will find the frontend at thm-projects/arsnova-mobile.
However, you do not need to download both repositories in order to get started.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/thm-projects/arsnova-backend.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/thm-projects/arsnova-backend)


## Documentation

We provide separate documentations for lectures and students, administrators and developers:

* [For end-users](https://arsnova.thm.de/blog/en/arsnova-manual/)
* For admins
	* [Installation](src/site/markdown/installation.md)
	* [Upgrading](src/site/markdown/upgrade.md)
* [For developers](src/site/markdown/development.md)


## Credits

ARSnova is powered by Technische Hochschule Mittelhessen - University of Applied Sciences.

Commit message:

Add info about the online service, v3 and maintenance of v2

README.md, after:

# ARSnova

ARSnova is a modern, web-based approach to Audience Response Systems (ARS).
It is the basis for the [online service Particify](https://particify.de) and released under an Open Source license.

## ARSnova 2
![ARSnova](src/site/resources/showcase.png)

ARSnova 2 consists of two projects: the mobile frontend and the backend.
This repository contains the backend code.
You will find the frontend at https://gitlab.com/particify/dev/foss/arsnova-webclient-legacy.
However, you do not need to download both repositories in order to get started.

Version 2 is now longer under active development.
It is still maintained meaning it receives security and other important bug fixes but you should not expect any new features.

## ARSnova 3

ARSnova 3 is the version which is under [active development](https://gitlab.com/particify/dev/foss/arsnova-backend).
The software is composed of a web client and multiple backend services.
A good starting point to run ARSnova 3 yourself is the [Docker Orchestration project](https://gitlab.com/particify/dev/foss/docker-orchestration).

## Documentation

We provide separate documentations for lectures and students, administrators and developers:

* [For end-users](https://arsnova.thm.de/blog/en/arsnova-manual/)
* For admins
	* [Installation](src/site/markdown/installation.md)
	* [Upgrading](src/site/markdown/upgrade.md)
* [For developers](src/site/markdown/development.md)


## Credits

ARSnova is powered by [Technische Hochschule Mittelhessen - University of Applied Sciences](https://www.thm.de)
and [Particify](https://particify.de).
