# Upgrading ARSnova

This document describes the necessary steps to perform minor version upgrades for ARSnova Backend.
It does not apply to major version upgrades (e.g. upgrading from ARSnova 2.8 to 3.0).
If you are viewing this file from the Repository, please make sure you are on the corresponding stable branch (e.g. `2.8`) for the target version.


## Database Backup

To be able to revert to the previous installed version, you should backup your CouchDB database.
The data is stored either in `/var/lib/couchdb` or `/usr/local/var/lib/couchdb`.
You can copy this directory while CouchDB is running.
For CouchDB 2 or later, you can exclude the `.shards` (not `shards`!) directory to save space.
It can be regenerated by CouchDB.


## Database Migration

Most ARSnova minor releases require modifications to the database.
We provide the [ARSnova Setup Tool](https://github.com/thm-projects/arsnova-setuptool/releases) to handle these changes.
Please make sure you download the corresponding release for the target version.
Usually, there are no database modifications specific to patch releases,
so you should use the latest Setup Tool version with a matching minor number.
As an example, you could use Setup Tool version 2.8.1 for ARSnova Backend 2.8.0.

Unpack the downloaded archive, and run the following commands in the extracted directory:

	$ ./tool.py
	$ ./migrations.py


## Configuration Changes

New ARSnova releases might introduce new configuration options or modify existing ones.
We suggest you review the corresponding [arsnova.properties.example](../../main/resources/arsnova.properties.example) for your target version and adjust `/etc/arsnova.properties` accordingly.


## Backend Upgrade

Copy the web archive (`.war` file) for the new backend version into Tomcat's `webapps` directory.
It is usually located at either `/var/lib/tomcatX/webapps` or `/opt/tomcatX/webapps`.
Make sure you use the same name you chose when installing ARSnova (we suggest `api.war`) and override the existing file.
By default, Tomcat automatically deploys the updated application, but nevertheless we recommend restarting Tomcat to make sure no unnecessary data is kept in memory.


## Frontend Upgrade

While we try to keep compatibility breaking changes to the API to a minimum, we suggest to always use a version of Mobile corresponding to the backend's version.


## Final Steps

The new version of the backend should now be up and running.
As a quick test you can run the following `curl` commands:

	$ curl -H "Accept: application/json" http://localhost:8080/api/

The backend should return the new version.

	$ curl http://localhost:8080/api/statistics

The backend should respond with data statistics which implies that the connection to the database is working.
